Speaker 0    00:06    Let me express my deepest gratitude for the privilege of addressing this convention tonight as a particular honor for me because let's face it, my presence on this stage is pretty unlikely. My father was a foreign student, born and raised in a small village in Kenya. He grew up hurting goats, went to school in a tin roof, shack his father, my grandfather was a cook, a domestic servant to the British, but my grandfather had larger dreams for his son. Through hard work and perseverance, my father got a scholarship to study in a magical place. America that's shown as a beacon of freedom and opportunity to so many who had come before while studying here.  
Speaker 1    00:59    Okay.  
Speaker 0    01:00    My father met my mother. She was born in a town on the other side of the world in Kansas. Her father worked on oil rigs and farms through most of the depression. The day after Pearl Harbor, my grandfather signed up for duty, joined Patton's army, marched across Europe, back home. My grandmother raised the baby and went to work on a bomber assembly line. After the war, they studied on the Gi bill, bought a house through Fha and later moved west all the way to Hawaii in search of opportunity and they too had big dreams for their daughter, a common dream born of two continents. My parents shared not only an improbable love, they shared an abiding faith in the possibilities of this nation. They would give me an African name, Barack or blessing, believing that in a tolerant America, your name is no barrier to success.  
Speaker 1    02:07    Hey, imagine they imagine  
Speaker 0    02:10    me going to the best school in the land even though they weren't rich because in a generous America, you don't have to be rich to achieve your potential. They're both passed away now and yet I know that on this night they don't look down on me with great pride. They stand here and I stand here today grateful for the diversity of my heritage, aware that my parents' dreams live on in my two precious daughters. I stand here knowing that my story is part of the larger American story, that I owe a debt to all of those who came before me and that in no other country on earth is my story even possible.  
Speaker 1    03:02    So Nice.  
Speaker 0    03:04    We gathered to affirm the greatness of our nation, not because of the height of our skyscrapers or the power of our military or the size of our economy. Our pride is based on a very simple premise summed up in a declaration made over 200 years ago. We hold these truths to be self evident that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their creator with certain inalienable rights. That among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. That is the true genius of America.  
Speaker 1    03:41    A faith, a faith in simple dreams,  
Speaker 0    03:47    uninstall distance on small miracles that we can talk in our children at night and know that they're fed and clothed and safe from harm. Or we can say what we think, right? What we think without hearing a sudden knocked on the door that we can have an idea and start our own business without paying a bribe. That we can participate in the political process without fear of retribution and that our votes will be counted at least most of the time.  
Speaker 1    04:22    Yeah.  
Speaker 0    04:24    This year in this election, we are called to reaffirm our values and our commitments to hold them against a hard reality and see how we're measuring up to the legacy of our forebearers and the promise of future generations and fellow Americans, Democrats, Republicans, independents. I say to you tonight, we have more work to do,  
Speaker 0    04:49    more work to do for the workers. I met in Galesburg, Illinois. We're losing their union jobs at the Maytag plant that's moving to Mexico and now we're having to compete with their own children for jobs that pay seven bucks an hour more to do for the father that I met who was losing his job and choking back the tears, wondering how he would pay $4,500 a month for the drugs his son needs without the health benefits that he counted on more to do for the young woman in East St Louis and thousands more liker who has the grades, has the drive, has the will, but doesn't have the money to go to college. Now, don't get me wrong, the people I meet in small towns and big cities in diners and office parks, they don't expect government to solve all their problems. They know they have to work hard to get ahead and they want to go into the collar counties around Chicago and people will tell you they don't want their tax money wasted by a welfare agency or by the Pentagon. Go into any inner city neighborhood and folks tell you  
Speaker 2    05:57    that government alone  
Speaker 0    05:59    can teach our kids to learn. They know the parents have to teach, the children can achieve unless we raised their expectations and turn off the television sets and erratic  
Speaker 2    06:08    great. The slander that says, our black youth with a book is acting white. They know those things. People don't expect. People don't expect government to solve all their problems,  
Speaker 0    06:27    but they sense deep in their bones there with just a slight change in priorities, we can make sure that every child in America has a decent shot at life and at the doors of opportunity remain open to all they know we can do better and they want that choice. In this election, we offer that choice. Our Party has chosen a man to lead us who embodies the best this country has to offer and that man is John Kerry.  
Speaker 1    07:01    Yeah.  
Speaker 0    07:03    John Kerry understands the ideals of community, faith and service because they've defined his life from his hero and service to Vietnam through his years as a prosecutor and lieutenant governor threw two decades in the United States Senate. He's devoted himself to this country again and again. We've seen him make tough choices when easier ones were available. His values and his record affirm what is best in us. John Kerry believes in an America where hard work is rewarded. So instead of offering tax breaks to companies shipping jobs overseas, he offers them to companies creating jobs here at home.  
Speaker 2    07:41    John Perry believes in in America, we're all Americans can afford the same health coverage our politicians in Washington have for themselves. John Kerry believes in energy independence,  
Speaker 0    07:55    so we aren't held hostage to the profits of oil companies or the sabotage of foreign oil fields.  
Speaker 1    08:02    Yeah,  
Speaker 0    08:02    John Kerry believes in the constitutional freedoms that have made our country the envy of the world, and he will never sacrifice our basic liberties nor use faith as a wedge to divide us.  
Speaker 2    08:21    And John Kerry believes that in a dangerous  
Speaker 0    08:24    world, war must be an option sometimes, but it should never be the first option.  
Speaker 2    08:33    You know, a while back,  
Speaker 0    08:36    a while back, I met a young man named Seamus in a VFW hall in east Moline, Illinois. He was a good looking kid. Six, two, six, three clear eyed with an easy smile. He told me he joined the marines and was heading to a rock in the following week and as I listened to him explain why he didn't list it, the absolute faith he had in our country and its leaders, his devotion to duty and service. I thought this young man was all the any of us might ever hope for in a child. But then I ask myself, are we serving Shamus as well as he's serving us? I thought of the 900 men and women, sons and daughters, husbands and wives, friends and neighbors who won't be returning to their own hometowns.  
Speaker 1    09:24    Yeah.  
Speaker 0    09:25    I've thought of the families I've met who were struggling to get by without a loved one's full income or who's loved ones had returned with a limb missing or nerve shatter, but still lack longterm health benefits because they were reservists. When we see  
Speaker 2    09:40    send our young men and women into harm's way, we have  
Speaker 0    09:44    solemn obligation not to fudge the numbers or shade the truth about why they are going to care for their families while they're gone.  
Speaker 2    09:52    10 to the soldiers upon their return and to never ever go to war without enough troops to win the war, secure the peace and earn the respect of the world.  
Speaker 1    10:13    No.  
Speaker 2    10:14    Now let me be clear. Let me be clear.  
Speaker 1    10:17    Yeah,  
Speaker 0    10:18    we have real enemies in the world. These enemies must be found. They must be pursued and they must be defeated. John Kerry knows this and Justice Lieutenant Carrie did not hesitate to risk his life to protect the men who served with him in Vietnam. President Carey will not hesitate one moment to use our military Mike to keep America safe and secure.  
Speaker 2    10:42    John Kerry believes in America  
Speaker 0    10:47    and he knows that it's not enough for just some of us to prosper for alongside our famous individualism. There's another ingredient in the American soccer. I believe that we're all connected as one piece. If there is a child on the south side of Chicago who can't read, that matters to me, even if it's not my child.  
Speaker 2    11:08    If there's a senior citizen somewhere who can't pay for their prescription drugs and having to choose between medicine and the rent that makes my life poor, even if it's not my grandparents. If there was an Arab American family being rounded up without benefit of an attorney or due process that runs my civil liberties.  
Speaker 1    11:31    Yeah.  
Speaker 2    11:33    It is that fundamental belief. It is that fundamental belief. I am my brother's keeper. I am my sister's keeper. That makes this country work. It's what allows us to pursue our individual dreams and yet still come together as one American family.  
Speaker 0    11:55    E pluribus unum out of many one. No. Even as we speak, there are those who are preparing to divide us. The spin masters, the negative ad peddlers who embrace the politics of anything goes well. I say to them tonight, there is not a liberal America and a conservative America. There is the United States of America.  
Speaker 2    12:22    There is not a black America and a white America and Latino America and Asian America. There's the United States of America.  
Speaker 1    12:34    Nope.  
Speaker 2    12:34    Pundits. The pundits like to slice and dice our country in the red states and blue states,  
Speaker 0    12:41    red states for Republicans, Blue State for Democrats, but I've got news for them too. We worship an awesome God in the blue states and we don't like federal agents poking around in our libraries and the red states.  
Speaker 2    12:55    We coached little league and the Blue States and yes, we've got some gay friends than the red states  
Speaker 0    13:03    patriots who opposed the war in Iraq and their patriots who supported the war in Iraq. We are one people, all of us pledging allegiance to the stars and Stripes. All of us defending the United States of America.  
Speaker 2    13:25    Give me n. M. E. N. M. E. N. That's what this election is about.  
Speaker 0    13:35    Do we participate in the politics of cynicism or do we participate in a politics of hope? John Kerry calls on us to hope John Edwards calls on us to hope. I'm not talking about blind optimism here. The almost willful ignorance, the things unemployment will go away if we just don't think about it or healthcare crisis will solve itself if we just ignore it. That's not what I'm talking about. I'm talking about something more substantial. It's the hope of slave sitting around a fire, singing freedom songs, the hope of immigrants setting up for diff distant shores, the hope of a young naval lieutenant bravely patrolling the Mekong Delta, the hope of a mill workers son who dares to the by the odds, the hope of a skinny kid with a funny name who believes that America has a place for him too.  
Speaker 1    14:29    <inaudible>  
Speaker 2    14:39    hope in the face of difficulty. Hope in the face of uncertainty, the audacity of hope in the end.  
Speaker 0    14:49    That is God's greatest gift to us, the bedrock of this nation. I believe in things not seen. I believe that there are better days ahead. I believe that we can give our middleclass relief and provide working families with a road to opportunity. I believe we can provide jobs for the jobless homes to the homeless and reclaim young people in cities across America from violence and despair. I believe that we have a righteous wind at our backs and that as we stand on the crossroads of history, we can make the right choices and meet the challenges that face us, America tonight. If you feel the same energy that I do, if you feel the same urgency that I do, if you feel the same passion that I do, if you feel the same hopefulness that I do, if we do what we must do, then I have no doubt that all across the country from Florida to Oregon, from Washington to Maine, the people will rise up in November and John Kerry will be sworn in as president and John Edwards will be sworn in as vice president, and this country will reclaim this promise and out of this law, <inaudible> stickle darkness, a brighter day will come.  
Speaker 0    15:59    Thank you very much. Everybody got it?  
Speaker 1    16:00    Bless you. 
